1) ls : command is a basic Linux shell command that lists information about files and directories in the current working directory. It can be used in any directory or anywhere on the command line. 

2)pwd : print working directory. It prints the directory name in which you are working.

3) cd /  : / is root directory
   ls

4) cd : change directory

5) cd .. : to go back from the directory

6) mkdir: for making new directory

7) touch: to make a blank text file

8) mv: move from one dir to another

9) cp: to copy

10) clear: to clean the terminal

11) Users in LINUX:

1. Regular Users
Role: Everyday users who use the system for general tasks like browsing, creating files, or running applications.
Tasks:
a.Access and modify their own files and directories.
b.Run applications and scripts.
c.Access files and resources they have permission to.
d.Can’t change system-wide settings or access files owned by other users unless given permission.

2. Root User (Superuser)
Role: The highest level of access on the system. This user has complete control over the entire system.
Tasks:
a.Install or remove software.
b.Modify system files and settings.
c.Manage all user accounts and permissions.
d.Access and modify any file or directory on the system.
e.Perform system maintenance tasks like backups or system updates.

3. Service Users (System Users)
Role: Special users created to run specific system services or daemons (background processes). They usually don’t log in directly.
Tasks:
a.Run specific background processes or services, like web servers or database servers.
b.Typically have limited permissions restricted to what’s necessary for the service they run.
c.Help keep the system secure by isolating services from regular users and the root user.


12) apt: We can install software with the help of apt.

13)sudo apt-get update: used for updating list of software that are installed.

14) sudo apt upgrade: this will actually upgrade the list of the software. so we have to write upgrade . else the software wont get updated.

15) ls -a: command in Linux is used to list all files and directories in the current directory, including hidden ones. 

16) ls -r

17) history: gives the history of all the commands used

18) echo : prints whatever you write after echo

19) printf: prints whatever you write after printf

20)top : command in Linux displays real-time information about running processes and system resource usage.

21) ps -a : command in Linux shows a list of all running processes for all users, excluding those not associated with a terminal.

22) kill (Process id): command in Linux is used to terminate processes by sending them signals, typically to stop them.

23) vim: text editor can help to change the content of file

24) sudo su: changing regular user to root or super user


